{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15520\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Ant Colony Optimisation Algorithm\
\
The Ant Colony Optimisation (ACO) algorithm falls under the category of metahuristic search algorithms. It can be used to find the shortest path between points on a graph or to minimise a cost function, based on the technique that ants use to find the best path to food from their colonies.\
Ants travel randomly in search of food. When an ant finds food at a particular location, it retraces it\'92s path to the colony laying down a pheromone trail on its way. Other ants detect this trail and are likely to follow it to the source of food laying down pheromone along the way, thereby increasing the strength of the pheromone along the trail. The pheromone deposited along the trail gradually evaporates and thus its intensity reduces with time. Consequently, the longer the pheromone trail the lowers its attractive strength. An ant is more likely to take the path with the higher pheromone level although it might take a different path. As many ants repeatedly travel between the colony and the source of food the shortest path between the two is eventually revealed. \
\
The ACO algorithm uses many of the same principles to find the minimum value of a cost function. In this paper the algorithm is used to minimise a multi-objective cost function which encapsulates overshoot, rise time, settling time and ITAE of a FOPID controller connected to a fractional order plant forming a unity feedback system. The design and use of the multi-objective function will be explained in greater detail later in this paper. Initially, a population of n ants is selected and a matrix of equally distributed values of the parameters is initialised. Since there are 5 parameters to be tuned in the FOPID there are 5 rows in the nodal matrix. A probability matrix is created which hold the probability of an ant to visit a vertices in the nodal matrix. The probability matrix is created using a pheromone matrix<Pheromone matrix symbol and formula> and a heuristic value <symbol and formula>, both set to an initial value <symbol>. Here, the values of alpha and beta must be tuned as they affect the relative influence of the pheromone matrix and heuristic matrix in deciding the probability. The colony of ants travels the nodal matrix choosing a value from each row . The cost function is evaluated for the path taken by each ant. At the end of the tour the pheromone trail is updated using <insert formula> and the probability matrix is updated by <insert formula>. This process is repeated for a fixed number iterations. The proper selection of alpha, beta and roh values is necessary for optimal functioning of the algorithm.  }